Welcome back.
I'm about to show you what we had from the very beginning in the javascript language.
We didn't have object to create.
So we did something different than what you see here.
And this approach is even closer to Object Oriented Programming.
Let me show you what we can do instead of using object to create.
We're going to use something called constructor functions let's see how that would look with a constructor
function.
Let's just remove this for now.
It will still be a function except we're going to create an elf function that takes in name and weapon
and then we're going to remove all this line of code and instead use this dot name equals to name and
this dot weapon equal to weapon.
Now here's the interesting part I'm not returning anything here.
I'm using this and that's it.
We're constructing an elf but how does this work.
Well if in here I changes to Elf and say Elf and for now let's just comment out these console logs and
I run this I don't get any errors.
That's good.
If I do Sam dot name and I run this I get a type error.
Can I read property.
Name of undefined and that's because constructor functions are built like this.
And in order to use a constructor function you need to use the new keyword in javascript.
So in here we would add new and by adding new let's see what happens look at that.
That magically worked.
Why is that.
That is because the new keyword in JavaScript which by the way a lot of people don't like but it's just
the way things work.
So we're gonna have to get used to the new keyword automatically returns the object for us that we have
here and it creates the elf constructor that is it runs this code constructs the elf function for us.
And now we have access to Peter and San and any function that is invoked using the new keyword is called
a constructor function.
And as a matter of fact we've seen constructor functions before.
Remember when we talked about things like number or even object or function capital letters but they
were functions.
Those were all constructor functions.
You invoke them by using the new keyword so as a rule even though you don't need to.
You won't get a syntax error as a rule all constructor functions should start with a capital letter
to let other programmers know that you need to call this function using the new keyword.
Let's show you how to create an elf using the constructor function that comes natively in javascript
that is the function constructor using the function constructor and this is something that we've seen
before in the fundamentals part of the course where I can say let's say const of 1 is equal to new function
so that we call this function constructor and this function constructor will have parameters of name
and weapon.
And then the last parameter is what the function is actually going to be doing.
Now I'm going to use template strings here and I'm just going to copy and paste this piece of code
and now if I do const Sara equals new ELF 1 let's make sure we use capital letters here because again
to indicate that where we want to use the new keyword and I'll just say Sarah and Sarah's weapons are
going to be let's say fireworks.
Now if I do Sarah and look at that I have named Sarah weapon a function constructor or constructor functions
are simply that they allow us to use the new keyword and create these objects for us.
Now in the next video we're going to dive a little bit deeper into what the new keyword does and how
constructor functions are used in JavaScript.
But before I do that let's make sure that we implement the attack function on here.
Because we've now used the new keyword and the new keyword automatically returns an elf object for us
and it creates this elf constructor.
We've created a new object and because this function is called a new execution context is created and
because of that because this is a function that we're running and a new execution context is created.
That means we automatically get the this valuable attached to it.
Remember every function that we call gets the this and the arguments parameters.
We remember this right.
This and arguments.
The interesting thing though is that when we use the new keyword instead of this pointing to the window
object like it usually does the new keyword changes.
What this is pointing to when a new execution context is created instead the new keyword will say hey
I want you to point this to the object that we just created so that this now becomes Peter or Sam and
this is what happens if we remove new.
If we remove new and I click Run I cannot read property name of undefined
and that's because without the new keyword we are not creating this object.
We are not returning an object.
And we're also not assigning this to the object that calls us.
So this new keyword does a ton for us behind the scenes in order for it to work.
So it's very important that we use the new keyword which is why we want to use the capital letters to
indicate to other programmers hey we need to use the new keyword.
Otherwise it's not going to work.
And why this is so powerful is that because this is a function remember every function in javascript
gets automatically a prototype property.
Remember this functions are special type of objects in javascript.
It's a callable object that has code that can be invoked an optional name.
They'll have a bunch of properties that if we want to give it we have access to.
But we also get this prototype that gets created with any new function.
Now this prototype property is absolutely useless with any regular function.
But when we have constructor functions remember the ones with capital letters that we can invoke with
new.
Well this prototype finally becomes useful and native constructor functions like the function comes
with things like call apply and bind arrays come with things like Map Reduce for each.
Because they're built out of the array constructor function in our case we can add our own to the prototype
so that now we can do elf dot prototype which we have access to and say attack.
So we're adding the attack method on the prototype.
And if I do function return attack with this dot weapon remember this will be the calling object what's
going to call us.
Well whatever is to the left of the dot so that if I do run here I get sent.
But if I do attack and I run look at that attack with fire How awesome is that.
Let's make sure both of these work click Run.
Look at that.
Peter and Sam can finally attack with stones and fire and we were able to use the prototype to add functionality
to both.
Else so to review we're able to use constructor functions instead of something like object to create
to create this magical function that creates a new object.
Returns a new object and also modifies what this means to whatever object calls us so instead of the
global object.
This is not going to point to the calling object.
Peter and Sam but because this is a constructor function we also have this prototype property that we
can attach things to so that when Peter dot attack gets called Well Peter doesn't have attack as its
own method but it's going to go up the prototype chain remember dot dot prototype is going to point
to prototype and this prototype is going to have the attack and now both Peter and Sam are able to use
attack from the same location in memory instead of us copying attack multiple places in multiple locations
in memory we just have it written once in memory and both of these else are going to point to attack
which is in the same memory space and the beauty is that I can just keep adding functionality here right.
If the game evolves and all of a sudden I say well Elf can now also use built.
Well now we have a new function that allows us to add functionality to all the else that we created.
And they can now build as well.
One other thing.
What do you think happens if I change this into an arrow function if I click Run I get undefined.
And we've seen this before right.
Why do we get undefined.
Well because arrow functions are lexicon we scoped that is they defined this based on where they're
red.
And this in this case is the global object because who's calling attack right now.
There's no object surrounding it other than the global object.
But by using the regular function which is dynamically scoped that is it doesn't matter where it's written
it's whoever calls it well because it's dynamically scoped.
This is going to change based on who calls it.
So that is the one gotcha where you don't always want to use error functions because sometimes you don't
want lexical scoped.
This.
All right.
Let's take a break and talk a little bit more about this and think about some of the improvements pros
and cons that we have with this.
I'll see in the next one Bye.